
time Management Paragraph 1 (100 words)
We need to manage our time effectively. We do many different activities each day. Some of these are routine activities that we do every day. For instance, getting ready in the morning or going for a morning walk or jog are activities that we do each morning. Similarly, we go to school in the morning each working day at the same time, taking the school bus or going by walk. By managing our time effectively we can be punctual and do our activities without stress. For this we need to plan our day well and follow a practicable time table.

Time Management Paragraph 2 (150 words)
By time management we mean the proper managing of our day so that we can be successful in completing all the tasks and activities we need to do in the most efficient and best possible way. By drawing a practicable time table we can accommodate our activities for each day in a proper way so that each activity gets the duration of time it deserves.

If we waste time on useless activities we will have less time for useful and important activities because the time we have in a day is fixed. If we waste our time, we get stressed out doing the important and necessary activities for the day. We also need time to relax and sleep so that we may be refreshed and rejuvenated otherwise we will not be able to work at our optimal and most productive level. Therefore it is important to manage our time well.

Time Management Paragraph 3 (200 words)
We all have the same number of hours at our disposal each day. If we spend the twenty-fours that we have in a day in an efficient way we can be successful in completing the tasks and achieving our goals for the day. If we waste our time on vain activities we either get stressed out doing the tasks we need to do or fail to do what needs to be done. If we wish to succeed in achieving our short term and long term goals we need to manage our time effectively. It is best to draw a time table for ourselves. The time table must be practicable so that we can actually follow it.

Otherwise we will get disillusioned and stressed out by being unable to follow the time table. We must accommodate leisure activities as also rest and relaxation in our daily routine so that we feel refreshed to be able to work efficiently. We must also have an exercise regimen that can keep us physically fit and healthy. By maintaining a discipline and a schedule we can accomplish our activities and targets rather than by doing our tasks in a haphazard or in an erratic manner.

Time Management Paragraph 4 (250 words)
We do many different activities each day, and we need to do them on time. We have a fixed time to go to school each morning. We need to take the bus or go by bike or by foot and reach the school on time. If we are not punctual we lose out on completing all the activities we need to.

If we manage our time effectively we can accomplish all the activities and tasks we wish to. This requires drawing up a practicable time table. If we can stick to the time table we can then succeed in achieving our goals whether they are in the short term or long term. It is important that we draw up a time table that we can adopt practically. If it is impracticable we get disappointed and dejected and discard it completely. Therefore, a time table must be one that we can go by.

We also need to prioritize our activities. If we give attention to the most important tasks we can achieve our long term goals easily. On the other hand, if we spend time on unimportant tasks or on useless activities we reduce the productive time available for the important activities.

We also need to figure out the time of the day when we are most productive and complete important tasks at that time. For instance, the mind is the most refreshed after a good night’s sleep, and that is when we can devote our time to doing our studies.

Time Management Paragraph 5 (300 words)
Time management refers to the managing of our time effectively so that we may be able to complete all the tasks and activities that we need to. This requires proper apportioning of our time according to the particular activities. In other words, we need to prioritize our activities and tasks so we may be able to complete our important tasks, and not waste time on useless or unnecessary activities. So we need to draw up a time table.

We need to be practical while doing so. Otherwise we will draw up a time table that we will not be able to stick to, and as a consequence feel dejected and disappointed. If we are to feel confident and follow the time table it should be a clear and practicable one. Every effort that we make that helps us succeed in accomplishing our tasks successfully will give us the impetus to be more time-conscious and punctual. This requires a discipline that we must follow.

Time management, discipline and prioritization

Time management and discipline go hand in hand. If there is no discipline we cannot be punctual, and we cannot succeed in completing our tasks well. Time management requires prioritization of our activities, and discipline to follow a practical time table that we draw up for ourselves.

We can prioritize our activities best by setting our goals. Our goals are both in the short term and in the long term. We need to discover the best way in which we can reach these goals through a proper utilization of the resources we have of time and energy. Discipline requires that we do the tasks we need to do and not waste time and energy on useless and wasteful activities. At the same time, we must have sufficient time for sleep and relaxation, and leisure and fun activities.